COVID-19
7
Fever.
cough.
Shortness of breath.
Muscle and head aches.
Loss of taste ability.
Loss of smell ability.
Increasing in the body temperature.
Coronavirus disease (COVID-19) is an infectious disease caused by the SARS-CoV-2 virus./
3
Get tested as soon as you can after your symptoms start. 
Stay home until you receive results. If you're ill with COVID-19 .
You can help prevent the spread of the COVID-19 virus. Stay home from work, school and public areas unless it's to get medical care.
VIRUS-C
7
Yellow skin.
Yellow eyes.
Not wanting to eat.
Dark urine.
Throwing up.
Stomach pain.
Light colored stool.
Hepatitis C is a liver infection caused by the hepatitis C virus (HCV).
Hepatitis C is spread through contact with blood from an infected person.
Today, most people become infected with the hepatitis C virus by sharing needles or other equipment used to prepare and inject drugs./
2
Hepatitis C (virus c ) is treated using direct-acting antiviral (DAA) tablets. DAA tablets are the safest and most effective medicines for treating hepatitis C.
They're highly effective at clearing the infection in more than 90% of people. The tablets are taken for 8 to 12 weeks./
ALZHEIMER
5
Taking longer to complete easy tasks.
Major memory loss.
Repeating questions.
Losing track of time.
Poor judgment.
Alzheimer's disease is an irreversible, progressive brain disorder that slowly destroys memory 
and thinking skills and, eventually, the ability to carry out the simplest tasks.
It is the most common cause of dementia in older adults. While dementia is more common 
as people grow older, it is not a normal part of aging./
3
Keeping things simple to them.
Don’t show anger to them.
Focus more on their feelings not words.
DIARRHEA 
7
Frequent loose, watery stools.
Abdominal cramps.
Abdominal pain.
Fever.
Bleeding.
Lightheadedness.
Dizziness from dehydration.
Diarrhea is usually a symptom of an infection in the intestinal tract, which can be caused by a variety of bacterial,
viral and parasitic organisms. Infection is spread through contaminated food or drinking-water,
or from person-to-person as a result of poor hygiene./
3
Drink plenty of liquids Including water, broths and juices. Avoid caffeine and alcohol. 
Add semisolid and low-fiber foods gradually as your bowel movements return to normal.
Try soda crackers, toast, eggs, rice or chicken.
DIABETES 
8
Urinate (pee) a lot, often at night.
Are very thirsty.
Lose weight without trying.
Are very hungry.
Have blurry vision.
Have numb or tingling hands or feet.
Feel very tired.
Have very dry skin.
With diabetes, your body doesn't make enough insulin or can't use it as well as it should.
When there isn't enough insulin or cells stop responding to insulin, too much blood sugar stays in your bloodstream.
Over time, that can cause serious health problems, such as heart disease, vision loss, and kidney disease./
5
Take your medicines for diabetes and any other health problems even when you feel good. 
Check your feet every day for cuts, blisters, red spots, and swelling. 
Brush your teeth and floss every day to keep your mouth, teeth, and gums healthy.
Stop smoking. 
Keep track of your blood sugar.
HEART DISEASE 
8
Chest pain.
Chest tightness.
Chest pressure.
Chest discomfort (angina).
Pain,numbness and weakness in legs and arms.
Shortness of breath.
Pain in neck.
Pain in jaw.
What is heart disease? 
Heart disease is a general term that includes many types of heart problems. It's also called cardiovascular disease,
which means heart and blood vessel disease. Heart disease is the leading cause of death in the United States, 
but there are ways to prevent and manage many types of heart disease./
8
Don't smoke. Smoking is a major risk factor for heart disease, especially atherosclerosis. 
Eat healthy foods. Eat plenty of fruits, vegetables and whole grains. 
Control blood pressure. 
Get a cholesterol test. 
Manage diabetes. 
Exercise. 
Maintain a healthy weight. 
Manage stress.
OBESITY
7
Excess body fat, particularly around the waist.
Shortness of breath.
Sweating more than usual.
Snoring.
Trouble sleeping.
Skin problems from moisture accumulating in the folds.
Inability to perform simple physical tasks you could easily perform before weight gain.
Obesity is a complex disease involving an excessive amount of body fat. Obesity isn't just a cosmetic concern.
It's a medical problem that increases the risk of other diseases and health problems, such as heart disease,
diabetes, high blood pressure and certain cancers./
3
The best way to treat obesity is to eat a healthy, reduced-calorie diet
Exercise regularly. 
Eat a balanced, calorie-controlled diet as recommended by your GP or weight loss management health professional (such as a dietitian) join a local weight loss group.
MALARIA 
4
Fever.
Flu.
Shaking chills.
Headache. 
People who get malaria are typically very sick with high fevers, shaking chills, 
and flu-like illness./
1
Take any antimalaria midicine yor are prescribed bafore traveling to any country where malaria is common.
POLIO
6
Progressive muscle or joint weakness and pain.
Fatigue.
Muscle wasting.
Breathing or swallowing problems.
Sleep-related breathing disorders, such as sleep apnea.
Lowered tolerance of cold temperatures.
Polio, or poliomyelitis, is a disabling and life-threatening disease caused by poliovirus.
The virus spreads from person to person and can invade an infected person's spinal cord, causing paralysis
(can't move parts of the body). There is no cure, but there are safe and effective vaccines to prevent polio./
1
Physical or occupational therapy can help with arm or leg weakness caused by polio and might improve long-term outcomes, especially if implemented early in the course of illness.
INFLUENZA 
6
Fever.
Cough.
Sore throat.
Runny nose.
Muscle aches.
Headaches.
What is Influenza (Flu)?
Flu is a contagious respiratory illness caused by influenza viruses that infect the nose,
throat, and sometimes the lungs. It can cause mild to severe illness, and at times can lead to death.
The best way to prevent flu is by getting a flu Vaccine each year./
4
Rest and sleep.
Keep warm.
take paracetamol or ibuprofen to lower your temperature and treat aches and pains.
Drink plenty of water to avoid dehydration (your pee should be light yellow or clear).
MONONUCLEOSIS 
7
Extreme fatigue.
Fever.
Sore throat.
Head and body aches.
Swollen lymph nodes in the neck and armpits.
Swollen liver or spleen or both.
rash.
Mononucleosis, or mono, is a viral infection that causes fever, sore throat, and swollen lymph glands,
most often in the neck. Swollen lymph nodes, sore throat, fatigue and headache are some of the symptoms of mononucleosis
which is caused by the Epstein-Barr virus./
3
Get enough rest.
Eat a healthy diet.
Drink plenty of fluids.
MEASLES
5
Red and watery eyes.
Cough.
Runny nose (coryza).
Rash.
High fever.
Measles is a very contagious infection that causes a total-body skin rash and flu-like symptoms.
Measles is rare in the United States thanks to widespread immunization. But millions of cases happen worldwide every year./
2
A child who is sick should drink plenty of liquids.
Get lots of rest, and stay home from school or daycare to prevent spreading the infection.
TETANUS 
7
Jaw cramping.
Headache.
Fever.
Sweating.
Changes in blood and heart rate.
Seizures.
Trouble swallowing.
Tetanus is acquired through infection of a cut or wound with the spores of the bacterium
Clostridium tetani, and most cases occur within 14 days of infection.
Tetanus cannot be transmitted from person to person./
3
You should start antibiotics, given either orally or by injection, may help fight tetanus bacteria. 
Other drugs. Other medications might be used to regulate involuntary muscle activity, such as your heartbeat and breathing. 
Morphine might be used for this purpose as well as for sedation.
PERTUSSIS 
5
Runny nose.
Stuffed nose.
Low grade fever(less than 100.4°F).
Mild.
Apnea.
Pertussis is known as “whooping cough” because of the “whooping” sound that people can make when gasping for air
after a fit of coughing. Whooping cough can cause rapid, violent, and uncontrolled coughing fits until
all air is gone from the lungs. These coughing fits can go on for up to 10 weeks or more./
4
Take antibiotics exactly as prescribed by the doctor. 
Keep your home free from irritants – as much as possible – that can trigger coughing, such as smoke, dust, and chemical fumes. 
Use a clean, cool mist humidifier to help loosen mucus and soothe the cough. 
Wash hands often with soap and water for at least 20 seconds.
TYPHOID
7
Chills.
Headache.
Weakness and fatigue .
Fever that starts low and increases to 40 celsius.
Rash.
Muscle aches.
Constipation.
Typhoid fever, also called enteric fever, is caused by salmonella bacteria.
Typhoid fever is rare in places where few people carry the bacteria./
2
Typhoid fever requires prompt treatment with antibiotics. If typhoid fever is diagnosed early, the infection is likely to be mild and can usually be treated at home with a 7- to 14-day course of antibiotic tablets. 
More severe typhoid fever usually requires admission to hospital so antibiotic injections can be given.
AIDS
7
Rapid weight loss.
Recurring fever or profuse night sweats.
Extreme and unexplained tiredness.
Prolonged swelling of the lymph glands in the armpits, groin, or neck.
Diarrhea that lasts for more than a week.
Sores of the mouth, anus, or genitals.
Pneumonia.
AIDS is a retrovirus that infects cells of the human immune system (mainly CD4-positive T-cells
and macrophages—key components of the cellular immune system) and destroys or impairs their function.
Infection with this virus results in the progressive depletion of the immune system, leading to immunodeficiency./
1
Get in care and take medicine to treat HIV (called antiretroviral therapy or ART). Taking HIV medicine can reduce the amount of HIV in the blood (called viral load). HIV medicine can make the viral load very low (called viral suppression).
CHICKENPOX
6
Itchy rash.
Fluid-filled blisters that turns into Scabs.
High temperature.
Headache.
Sore throat .
Loss of appetite.
Chickenpox is a highly contagious disease caused by the varicella-zoster virus (VZV).It can cause an itchy, blister-like rash among other symptoms. The rash first appears on the chest, back, and face, and then spreads over the entire body./
1
There are pharmacy remedies that can alleviate symptoms. These include paracetamol to relieve fever, and calamine lotion and cooling gels to ease itching. In most children, the blisters crust up and fall off naturally within one to two weeks.
ASTHMA
8
Being too breathless to eat, speak or sleep.
A fast heartbeat and breathing.
Drowsiness.
Confusion.
Exhaustion.
Dizziness.
Blue lips or fingers.
Fainting.
Asthma is a long-term inflammatory disease of the airways of the lungs.It is characterized by variable and recurring symptoms, reversible airflow obstruction, and easily triggered bronchospasms. Symptoms include episodes of wheezing, coughing, chest tightness, and shortness of breath./
5
Sit up straight – try to keep calm.
Take one puff of your reliever inhaler (usually blue) every 30 to 60 seconds up to 10 puffs.
If you feel worse at any point, or you do not feel better after 10 puffs, call 123 for an ambulance.
If the ambulance has not arrived after 10 minutes and your symptoms are not improving, repeat step 2.
If your symptoms are no better after repeating step 2, and the ambulance has still not arrived, contact 123 again immediately.
CHOLERA
5
Watery diarrhea.
Leg cramps.
Thirst.
Vomiting .
Restlessness.
Cholera is an infection of the small intestine by some strains of the bacterium Vibrio cholerae.Symptoms may range from none, to mild, to severe. The classic symptom is large amounts of watery diarrhea that lasts a few days. Vomiting and muscle cramps may also occur./
2
Cholera requires immediate treatment because the disease can cause death within hours.
Oral rehydration salts (ORS). The ORS solution is available as a powder that can be made with boiled or bottled water.
HEMORRHOIDS 
5
Blood after you poo.
Itchy anus.
Pain around anus.
Lumps around your anus.
Feeling like you still need to poo after going to the toilet.
Hemorrhoids, also known as piles, are vascular structures in the anal canal. In their normal state, they are cushions that help with stool control. They become a disease when swollen or inflamed; the unqualified term hemorrhoid is often used to refer to the disease./
8
drink lots of fluid and eat plenty of fibre to keep your poo soft.
wipe your bottom with damp toilet paper.
take paracetamol if piles hurt.
take a warm bath to ease itching and pain.
use an ice pack wrapped in a towel to ease discomfort.
gently push a pile back inside.
keep your bottom clean and dry.
exercise regularly.
DENGUE
5
Rash.
Nausea.
Vomiting .
Any warning sign.
Aches and pains (*eye pain).
Dengue fever is a mosquito-borne tropical disease caused by the dengue virus. Symptoms typically begin three to fourteen days after infection. These may include a high fever, headache,vomiting, muscle and joint pains, and a characteristic skin itching and skin rash. Recovery generally takes two to seven days./
6
See a healthcare provider if you develop a fever or have symptoms of dengue. 
Tell him or her about your travel.
Rest as much as possible.
Take acetaminophen (also known as paracetamol outside of the United States) to control fever and relieve pain.
Do not take aspirin or ibuprofen!
Drink plenty of fluids to stay hydrated. Drink water or drinks with added electrolytes.